Add recommendation for sanity check and sanity test (#116)
inclusivenaming/website: content/word-lists/tier-2.md

---
title: "Tier 2: Strongly Consider Replacing"
---

## Sanity check/sanity test

*Recommendation donated from the IBM Inclusive IT Language Initiative Words Matter working group*

### Term 

- sanity test
- sanity check

### Recommendation 

Replace.

> ### Recommendd replacement terms 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Recommended replacement terms
```

- confidence check 
- coherence check 
- test
- verification

### Unsuitable replacement terms

None.

### Rationale for replacement 

This term might be derogatory to neurodiverse people. Jargon, such as "sanity test", is difficult to translate and is difficult to understand by readers whose first language is not English.

> Note: The original recommendation via IBM’s words matter group included different recommendations, but INI liked [Twitter’s recommendations](https://www.mediaite.com/news/twitter-bans-sanity-checks-company-announces-plan-to-make-code-more-politically-correct/) of confidence check and coherence check and have decided to recommend these. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: The original recommendation via IBM’s Words Matter group included different recommendations, but INI liked [Twitter’s recommendations][twitter-recs] of "confidence check" and "coherence check" and have opted to use them instead.

[twitter-recs]: https://www.mediaite.com/news/twitter-bans-sanity-checks-company-announces-plan-to-make-code-more-politically-correct/
```
